docs/advanced.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - footer
---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

The following shortcuts are globally available:

| Shortcut                           | Action                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Insert</kbd> | Open search page.        |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Delete</kbd> | Toggle extension on/off. |

The following shortcuts are available on search results:

| Shortcut                         | Action                                  |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| <kbd>Esc</kbd>                   | Cancel current search.                  |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>PgUp</kbd> | Page up through results.                |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>PgDn</kbd> | Page down through results.              |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>End</kbd>  | Go to last result.                      |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Home</kbd> | Go to first result.                     |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Up</kbd>   | Go to previous result.                  |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Down</kbd> | Go to next result.                      |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>B</kbd>    | Go to back to source term.              |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>E</kbd>    | Add current term as expression to Anki. |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>    | Add current term as reading to Anki.    |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>    | Play audio for current term.            |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>    | Add current kanji to Anki.              |

Shortcuts are configurable in the "Shortcuts" section of the settings page.

---

## Advanced Scanning Options

### Scanning local files

To enable Yomitan scanning on local files, go to `Settings` > `Security` > `Configure Yomitan Permissions`, and navigate to the `Allow access to file URLs` option. From there, follow the link to the browser's settings pages, and check `Allow access to file URLs` on Chrome/Edge, or `Access your data for all websites` for Firefox.

Yomitan may not work on PDF files. When that happens, drag and drop your PDF file into [our PDF Viewer](yomitan-pdf-viewer/index.html).

### Scanning in private windows

To enable Yomitan scanning in private/incognito web browser windows, go to `Settings` > `Security` > `Configure Yomitan Permissions`, and navigate to the `Allow in private windows` option. From there, follow the link to the browser's settings pages, and check `Allow in private windows` on Chrome/Edge, or `Run in Private Windows` for Firefox.

---

## Audio

### Default audio sources

After looking up a term, you can click on the ![](assets/icon/play-audio.svg){ width="16" } _speaker_ button to hear the term's pronunciation. When searching for audio, multiple audio sources are checked until the first source with audio for the term is found. If no audio is found, you will hear a short click instead. Right-clicking the ![](assets/icon/play-audio.svg){ width="16" } button allows choosing the source manually.

#### Japanese

The default audio sources for Japanese are:

- JapanesePod101
- Jisho.org

#### Other languages

The default audio sources for other languages are:

- Lingua Libre
- Wiktionary
- LanguagePod101

Depending on the language you need, audio coverage with the default sources may be limited, and you may want to add additional sources, as described below.

### Configuration

Audio sources can be configured in `Settings` > `Audio` > `Configure audio playback sources` to reorder them or add new ones. Besides the four sources mentioned above, you can also use your browser's inbuilt text-to-speech (TTS) engine or add a custom URL source:

#### Text-to-speech (TTS)

To enable this, just add a new playback source with the `Text-to-speech` type and choose your desired voice. This is the simplest way to get pronunciation audio, though there a few points to keep in mind:

- TTS voices vary between browsers and so might not support all languages. For instance, [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge) offers a wide selection of free Azure natural voices for a variety of languages. Edge provides over 300 voices, compared to around 25 in Google Chrome (see [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/speech-service/language-support?tabs=stt) for a list of supported languages).
- TTS audio can be inaccurate for languages with complex pronunciation such as Japanese, where words can have multiple possible readings and pitch accents.
- ⚠️ Note that the TTS voices cannot be sent to Anki; this is a [limitation of the browser SpeechSynthesis API](https://github.com/yomidevs/yomitan/issues/864).

#### Custom URL

You can add a custom URL from which audio will be fetched. One use case for this is getting audio from [Forvo](https://forvo.com/), currently the largest online pronunciation database.

Custom URL supports the following replacement patterns:

- `{term}`: The current entry's headword.

- `{reading}`: The reading for the headword.

- `{language}`: The iso code of the current language setting.

Recommended audio sources:

* **Local Audio Server for Yomichan**: This is the most reliable way to get Forvo audio in Yomitan. To read the pros and cons and set it up, see the [instructions](https://github.com/yomidevs/local-audio-yomichan).

* **Yomichan Forvo Server**: 
  - 🚨 Not working currently 
  - Fetches from Forvo, at the cost of a slight delay. After installing it in Anki, add a `Custom URL (JSON)` audio source with the URL `http://localhost:8770?term={term}&reading={reading}&language={language}`.

---

## Advanced Options

Click the `Advanced` toggle switch in the bottom left corner of the Settings page to enable advanced options.

### Parse sentences using MeCab

[MeCab](https://taku910.github.io/mecab/) is a third-party program which uses its own dictionaries and parsing algorithm to decompose sentences into individual words. MeCab may provide more accurate parsing results than Yomitan's internal parser.

In order for Yomitan to use it, both MeCab and a native messaging component must be installed.
A setup guide can be found [here](https://github.com/yomidevs/yomitan-mecab-installer/blob/master/README.md).

Commit message:

Update advanced.md to talk about custom send to anki (#92)
* Update advanced.md

* Update advanced.md

docs/advanced.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - footer
---

## Keyboard Shortcuts

The following shortcuts are globally available:

| Shortcut                           | Action                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Insert</kbd> | Open search page.        |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Delete</kbd> | Toggle extension on/off. |

The following shortcuts are available on search results:

| Shortcut                         | Action                                  |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| <kbd>Esc</kbd>                   | Cancel current search.                  |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>PgUp</kbd> | Page up through results.                |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>PgDn</kbd> | Page down through results.              |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>End</kbd>  | Go to last result.                      |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Home</kbd> | Go to first result.                     |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Up</kbd>   | Go to previous result.                  |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Down</kbd> | Go to next result.                      |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>B</kbd>    | Go to back to source term.              |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>E</kbd>    | Add current term as expression to Anki. |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd>    | Add current term as reading to Anki.    |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>    | Play audio for current term.            |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>    | Add current kanji to Anki.              |

Shortcuts are configurable in the "Shortcuts" section of the settings page.

---

## Advanced Scanning Options

### Scanning local files

To enable Yomitan scanning on local files, go to `Settings` > `Security` > `Configure Yomitan Permissions`, and navigate to the `Allow access to file URLs` option. From there, follow the link to the browser's settings pages, and check `Allow access to file URLs` on Chrome/Edge, or `Access your data for all websites` for Firefox.

Yomitan may not work on PDF files. When that happens, drag and drop your PDF file into [our PDF Viewer](yomitan-pdf-viewer/index.html).

### Scanning in private windows

To enable Yomitan scanning in private/incognito web browser windows, go to `Settings` > `Security` > `Configure Yomitan Permissions`, and navigate to the `Allow in private windows` option. From there, follow the link to the browser's settings pages, and check `Allow in private windows` on Chrome/Edge, or `Run in Private Windows` for Firefox.

---

## Audio

### Default audio sources

After looking up a term, you can click on the ![](assets/icon/play-audio.svg){ width="16" } _speaker_ button to hear the term's pronunciation. When searching for audio, multiple audio sources are checked until the first source with audio for the term is found. If no audio is found, you will hear a short click instead. Right-clicking the ![](assets/icon/play-audio.svg){ width="16" } button allows choosing the source manually.

#### Japanese

The default audio sources for Japanese are:

- JapanesePod101
- Jisho.org

#### Other languages

The default audio sources for other languages are:

- Lingua Libre
- Wiktionary
- LanguagePod101

Depending on the language you need, audio coverage with the default sources may be limited, and you may want to add additional sources, as described below.

### Configuration

Audio sources can be configured in `Settings` > `Audio` > `Configure audio playback sources` to reorder them or add new ones. Besides the four sources mentioned above, you can also use your browser's inbuilt text-to-speech (TTS) engine or add a custom URL source:

#### Text-to-speech (TTS)

To enable this, just add a new playback source with the `Text-to-speech` type and choose your desired voice. This is the simplest way to get pronunciation audio, though there a few points to keep in mind:

- TTS voices vary between browsers and so might not support all languages. For instance, [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/edge) offers a wide selection of free Azure natural voices for a variety of languages. Edge provides over 300 voices, compared to around 25 in Google Chrome (see [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/speech-service/language-support?tabs=stt) for a list of supported languages).
- TTS audio can be inaccurate for languages with complex pronunciation such as Japanese, where words can have multiple possible readings and pitch accents.
- ⚠️ Note that the TTS voices cannot be sent to Anki; this is a [limitation of the browser SpeechSynthesis API](https://github.com/yomidevs/yomitan/issues/864).

#### Custom URL

You can add a custom URL from which audio will be fetched. One use case for this is getting audio from [Forvo](https://forvo.com/), currently the largest online pronunciation database.

Custom URL supports the following replacement patterns:

- `{term}`: The current entry's headword.

- `{reading}`: The reading for the headword.

- `{language}`: The iso code of the current language setting.

Recommended audio sources:

* **Local Audio Server for Yomichan**: This is the most reliable way to get Forvo audio in Yomitan. To read the pros and cons and set it up, see the [instructions](https://github.com/yomidevs/local-audio-yomichan).

* **Yomichan Forvo Server**: 
  - 🚨 Not working currently 
  - Fetches from Forvo, at the cost of a slight delay. After installing it in Anki, add a `Custom URL (JSON)` audio source with the URL `http://localhost:8770?term={term}&reading={reading}&language={language}`.

---

## Advanced Anki Options
### Custom "Send to Anki" button

If you want a custom "send to Anki" button for example to send audio only cards or sentence cards:
1. In the bottom right hand corner of Yomitan settings, click the "Advanced" toggle
2. Go to Anki section in settings
3. Click "Configure Anki Flashcards..."
4. At the top of the screen click "➕" to add a new send to Anki card format.
5. Customise this however you like.

Some things you may want to do:
* Audio only cards
* Sentence only cards

---

## Advanced Options

Click the `Advanced` toggle switch in the bottom left corner of the Settings page to enable advanced options.

### Parse sentences using MeCab

[MeCab](https://taku910.github.io/mecab/) is a third-party program which uses its own dictionaries and parsing algorithm to decompose sentences into individual words. MeCab may provide more accurate parsing results than Yomitan's internal parser.

In order for Yomitan to use it, both MeCab and a native messaging component must be installed.
A setup guide can be found [here](https://github.com/yomidevs/yomitan-mecab-installer/blob/master/README.md).
