docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
---

# <p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 200%">**Yomitan**</p>
## <p style="text-align: center">Powerful, versatile and efficient pop-up dictionary for immersive language learning.</p>

<div class="grid" markdown>

[Get started](getting-started/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--stretch }

[:fontawesome-brands-chrome: Get Yomitan <small>Chrome/Stable</small>](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yomitan/likgccmbimhjbgkjambclfkhldnlhbnn){ .md-button .md-button--primary .md-button--stretch }

[:fontawesome-brands-firefox-browser: Get Yomitan <small>Firefox/Stable</small>](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/yomitan/){ .md-button .md-button--primary .md-button--stretch }

</div>

---

## What is Yomitan?

Yomitan turns your web browser into a tool for building language literacy by helping you **read** texts that would otherwise be too difficult to tackle in [a variety of supported languages](./docs/supported-languages.md).

<div class="grid cards" markdown>


-   :speech_balloon:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Interactive Popup__

    ---

    Interactive popup definition window for displaying search results.


-   :loud_sound:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Audio__

    ---

    Built-in native pronunciation audio with the ability to add your own custom audio sources.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./advanced/audio.md)
    
-   :writing_hand:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Stroke Order__

    ---

    Kanji stroke order diagrams are just a click away.

-   :pencil:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Flashcards__

    ---

    Automatic flashcard creation for the [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) flashcard program via the [AnkiConnect](https://foosoft.net/projects/anki-connect) plugin.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./anki/index.md)

-   :mag:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Custom Search__

    ---

    Custom search page for easily executing custom search queries.


-   :book:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Dictionaries__

    ---

    Support for multiple dictionary formats including [EPWING](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/EPWING) via the [Yomitan Import](https://github.com/themoeway/yomitan-import) tool.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./dictionaries/index.md)

</div>

---

### Yomitan Demo

=== "Yomitan Popup"
    === "Term"
        ![Term definitions](assets/ss/terms.png)
    === "Kanji"
        ![Kanji information](assets/ss/kanji.png)
=== "Yomitan Settings"
    === "Dictionary"
        ![Dictionary options](assets/ss/dictionaries.png)
    === "Anki"
        ![Anki options](assets/ss/anki.png)

[Get started](getting-started/index.md){ .md-button .md-button }

Commit message:

update UI (#13)
- Removed some technical stuff from the docs (they should reside in yomitan github)
- Removed footer
- Removed left navbar (I kept TOC on the right because I tend to look at the left of the page first before other things, and doesn't make sense having a sizable TOC there) 
- Kept left navbar for `Others` section, removed TOC from `Others` section (They are not related enough to put in the same file but they are not relevant enough to deserve individual space on the top bar)
- Replaced `Stroke Order` with `Multilanguage Support` from the features list
- Improve some formatting

docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
  - footer
---

# <p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 10px; font-size: 200%">**Yomitan**</p>
## <p style="text-align: center">Powerful, versatile and efficient pop-up dictionary for immersive language learning.</p>

<div class="grid" markdown>

[Get started](getting-started/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--stretch }

[:fontawesome-brands-chrome: Get Yomitan <small>Chrome/Stable</small>](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yomitan/likgccmbimhjbgkjambclfkhldnlhbnn){ .md-button .md-button--primary .md-button--stretch }

[:fontawesome-brands-firefox-browser: Get Yomitan <small>Firefox/Stable</small>](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/yomitan/){ .md-button .md-button--primary .md-button--stretch }

</div>

---

## What is Yomitan?

Yomitan turns your web browser into a tool for building language literacy by helping you **read** texts that would otherwise be too difficult to tackle in [a variety of supported languages](./docs/supported-languages.md).

<div class="grid cards" markdown>


-   :speech_balloon:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Interactive Popup__

    ---

    Interactive popup definition window for displaying search results.


-   :loud_sound:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Audio__

    ---

    Built-in native pronunciation audio with the ability to add your own custom audio sources.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./advanced/audio.md)
    
-   :earth_asia:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Multilanguage Support__

    ---

    Support for a variety of languages ranging from Japanese to Spanish and even Old Irish.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./other/supported-languages.md)

-   :pencil:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Flashcards__

    ---

    Automatic flashcard creation for the [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) flashcard program via the [AnkiConnect](https://foosoft.net/projects/anki-connect) plugin.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./anki/index.md)

-   :mag:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Custom Search__

    ---

    Custom search page for easily executing custom search queries.


-   :book:{ .lg .middle } &nbsp;
    __Dictionaries__

    ---

    Support for multiple dictionary formats including [EPWING](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/EPWING) via the [Yomitan Import](https://github.com/themoeway/yomitan-import) tool.

    ---

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: More information](./dictionaries/index.md)

</div>

---

### Yomitan Demo

=== "Yomitan Popup"
    === "Term"
        ![Term definitions](assets/ss/terms.png)
    === "Kanji"
        ![Kanji information](assets/ss/kanji.png)
=== "Yomitan Settings"
    === "Dictionary"
        ![Dictionary options](assets/ss/dictionaries.png)
    === "Anki"
        ![Anki options](assets/ss/anki.png)

[Get started](getting-started/index.md){ .md-button .md-button }
